.SH INET ADDRESS FAMILY
This section documents the methods available in the
inet address family.
.SS The loopback Method
This method may be used to define the IPv4 loopback interface. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
(No options)
.RE
.SS The static Method
This method may be used to define ethernet interfaces with statically allocated IPv4 addresses. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.BI address " address            "
Address (dotted quad) \fBrequired\fP
.TP
.BI masklen " masklen            "
Mask lenght (number of bits, e.g. 24) \fBrequired\fP
.TP
.BI broadcast " broadcast_address"
Broadcast address (dotted quad)
.TP
.BI gateway " address            "
Default gateway (dotted quad)
.TP
.BI pointopoint " address	"
Address of other end point (dotted quad). Note the spelling of "point-to".
.TP
.BI hwaddress " address          "
Hardware Address.
.TP
.BI mtu " size                   "
MTU size
.TP
.BI label
Interface label tag
.RE
.SS The dhcp Method
This method may be used to obtain an address via DHCP with any of the tools: dhclient, pump (Linux 2.2.x and newer), udhcpc (Linux 2.2.x and newer), or dhcpcd. If you have a complicated DHCP setup you should note that some of these clients use their own configuration files, rather than obtaining their configuration via \fBifup\fP. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.BI hostname " hostname  "
Hostname to be requested (pump, dhcpcd, udhcpc)
.TP
.BI leasehours " leastime"
Preferred lease time in hours (pump)
.TP
.BI leasetime " leasetime"
Preferred lease time in seconds (dhcpcd)
.TP
.BI vendor " vendor      "
Vendor class identifier (dhcpcd)
.TP
.BI client " client_id   "
Client identifier (dhcpcd, udhcpc)
.RE
.SS The bootp Method
This method may be used to obtain an address via bootp. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.BI bootfile " file "
Tell the server to use \fIfile\fP as the bootfile.
.TP
.BI server " address"
Use the IP address \fIaddress\fP to communicate with the server.
.TP
.BI hwaddr " addr   "
Use \fIaddr\fP as the hardware address instead of whatever it really is.
.RE
.SS The ppp Method
This method uses pon/poff to configure a PPP interface. See those commands for details. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.BI provider " name "
Use \fIname\fP as the provider (from /etc/ppp/peers).
.RE
.SS The wvdial Method
This method uses wvdial to configure a PPP interface. See that command for ore details. 
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.BI provider " name "
Use \fIname\fP as the provider (from /etc/ppp/peers).
.RE
